RS cloud vs open-source docs (#442)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: get-started/cloud-vs-open-source.mdx

---
#slug: "/docs/get-started"
title: "RudderStack Features: Cloud vs. Open Source"
description: >-
  Detailed guide comparing features available in RudderStack's two offerings - Cloud and Open Source.
---

# RudderStack Features: Cloud vs. Open Source

This guide compares the features present in the two primary [RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/) offerings - [RudderStack Cloud](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) and [RudderStack Open Source](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=opensource). It will help you in choosing the best option suited to your requirements.

<div class="infoBlock">

RudderStack also offers three plans as a part of <a href="https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial">RudderStack Cloud</a> : Free, Pro, and Enterprise. Refer to the  <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/pricing/">Pricing</a> page for detailed comparison and additional information on these plans.
</div>

## Feature comparison

### Setup and customizability

| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Comments | 
| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----|

> | [Data plane setup](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/installing-and-setting-up-rudderstack/) in your own environment |  ✕ |  ✓ | Cloud uses a RudderStack-hosted [data plane](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/glossary/#data-plane). | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Data plane setup](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/installing-and-setting-up-rudderstack/) in your own environment |  ✕ |  ✓ | Cloud uses the RudderStack-hosted [data plane](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/glossary/#data-plane). | 
```

just to be consistent with the below line

> | [Control plane setup](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/control-plane-lite/) in your own environment  |  ✕ |  ✓ | Cloud uses the RudderStack-hosted [web app](https://app.rudderstack.com/) to manage to your connections. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Control plane setup](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/control-plane-lite/) in your own environment  |  ✕ |  ✓ | Cloud uses the RudderStack-hosted [web app](https://app.rudderstack.com/) to manage your connections. |
```

| Customize the data plane [config parameters](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-server/blob/master/config/config.yaml) | ✕ |  ✓ |  - |

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on the data plane and control plane setup options in RudderStack Cloud and Open Source, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> section below.
</div>

### Events-related features

| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Comments |
| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----| 
| Event-related metrics | ✓ |  ✓ | Get information on the number of events ingested during a specified timeframe. | 

> | [Event backups in your own bucket](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/bucket-configuration-settings/) |  ✓ |  ✓ | RudderStack can manage it for you as a part of the [Enterprise plan](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/). | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Event backup in your own bucket](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/bucket-configuration-settings/) |  ✓ |  ✓ | RudderStack can manage it for you as a part of the [Enterprise plan](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/). | 
```

Observed that the topic name is 'backups' as well.. but we can maybe keep backup here and later on revamp the topic as well..

| [Live events](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/live-events/) |  ✓ | ✕ | This feature is applicable only for [cloud mode](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode) destinations. | 
| RudderStack-hosted object storage | ✓ |  ✕ | You can use the RudderStack-hosted bucket to temporarily store your events before forwarding them to your warehouse destination. |
| [Event Replay](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/event-replay/) | ✓ |  ✕ | This is an [Enterprise-only](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/) feature. | 

> | Maintaining events ordering | ✓ |  ✕ | This is an [Enterprise-only](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/) feature. |

Reviewer 2: OSS does have event ordering too. Only in the case of multi-node Rudderstack setup, it is not guaranteed

Author: Got it - will add this point. Thanks Srikanth!

> | [Transformations](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/transformations/) |  ✓ |  ✓ | <ul><li>In case of Open Source, this feature is only applicable for the [RudderStack-hosted control plane](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=opensource) and users are limited to <strong>3 transformations</strong>.</li><li>In case of <a href="https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial" target="_blank">RudderStack Cloud Free</a>, users are limited to <strong>3 transformations</strong>.</li><li>Pro and Enterprise users can set up unlimited transformations.</li><li>It can be used only for [cloud mode](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode) destinations.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Transformations](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/transformations/) |  ✓ |  ✓ | <ul><li>In case of Open Source, this feature is only applicable for the [RudderStack-hosted control plane](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=opensource) and users can set upto <strong>3 transformations</strong>.</li><li>In case of <a href="https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial" target="_blank">RudderStack Cloud Free</a>, users can set upto <strong>3 transformations</strong>.</li><li>Pro and Enterprise users can set up unlimited transformations.</li><li>It can be used only for [cloud mode](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode) destinations.</li></ul> |
```

### ETL and Reverse ETL

| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Comments |
| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----| 
| [Cloud Extract (ETL)](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/cloud-extract-sources/) | ✓ |  ✕  | [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) users can set up only 1 Cloud Extract source. Pro and Enterprise users can set up unlimited sources.  | 
| [Reverse ETL](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/reverse-etl/) | ✓ |  ✕ |  [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) users can set up only 1 Reverse ETL source. Pro and Enterprise users can set up unlimited sources.  | 
| Data syncs scheduling | ✓ |  ✕  |  - |

> | [Model](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/reverse-etl/features/models/) as a source | ✓ |  ✕  | Models let you define and run custom SQL queries on your warehouse and send the resulting data to specific destinations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Models](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/reverse-etl/features/models/) | ✓ |  ✕  | Models let you define and run custom SQL queries on your warehouse and send the resulting data to specific destinations. |
```

### Deployment and security

| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Comments |
| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----|
| Multi-node scaling | ✓ |  ✕  | Available for Pro and Enterprise users. |
| Single sign-on(SSO) | ✓ |  ✕  | This is an [Enterprise-only](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/) feature. |
| VPC deployment | ✓ |  ✕  | This is an [Enterprise-only](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/) feature. |

### Monitoring and observability

| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Comments |
| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----| 
| Grafana dashboards for monitoring | ✓ |  ✕  |  Available for Pro and Enterprise users. |
| Alerting and error notifications | ✓ |  ✕  |  This is an [Enterprise-only](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/) feature.  |

### Auditing and user management

| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Comments |
| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----| 

> | Ability to add other team members in the workspace | ✓ |  ✕  |  You can invite 3 members in your workspace in case of  [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial), whereas Pro users can invite upto 10 members. There is no limit in case of Enterprise users. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ability to add other team members in the workspace | ✓ |  ✕  |  You can invite upto 3 members in your workspace in [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial), upto 10 members in Pro, and unlimited members in the Enterprise plan. | 
```

---
#slug: "/docs/get-started"
title: "RudderStack Features: Cloud vs. Open Source"
description: >-
  Detailed guide comparing features available in RudderStack's two offerings - Cloud and Open Source.
---

# RudderStack Features: Cloud vs. Open Source

> This guide compares the feature differences between the two primary [RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/) offerings - [RudderStack Cloud](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) and [RudderStack Open Source](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=opensource).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide compares the features present in the two primary [RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/) offerings - [RudderStack Cloud](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) and [RudderStack Open Source](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=opensource). It will help you in picking up the one suited to your requirements.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

RudderStack also offers three plans as a part of <a href="https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial">RudderStack Cloud</a> : Free, Pro, and Enterprise. For detailed comparison and additional information on these plans, refer to the <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/pricing/">Pricing</a> page.
</div>

## Feature comparison

> | Feature |  Cloud |  Open Source | Reference | Comments |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Feature |  RudderStack Cloud | RudderStack Open Source | Reference | Comments |
```
just a thought, as we do not mention RudderStack in any table header, might add more clarity

| :--------| :-------------------| :--------------------------| :-----| :-----------|

> | Data plane setup in your own environment |  ✖ |  ✓ | [Setup instructions](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/installing-and-setting-up-rudderstack/) for RudderStack Open Source  | Cloud uses a RudderStack-hosted data plane. |

Reviewer: We can may be un-bold the cross symbol in the whole doc. The reason is, both are RS offerings only. If we were comparing with a competitor, makes sense to highlight other one's shortcomings but as both are ours, we can keep it neutral. Thoughts?

| Control plane setup in your own environment to manage sources and destinations |  ✖ |  ✓ | [Setup instructions](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/control-plane-lite/) for RudderStack Open Source | Cloud uses a RudderStack-hosted [web app](https://app.rudderstack.com/) to manage to your connections. |
| Customize the data plane config parameters | ✖ |  ✓ |  [Configurable parameters](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-server/blob/master/config/config.yaml) | - |
| Events backup |  ✓ |  ✓ | [Bucket configuration settings](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/bucket-configuration-settings/) | - |

> | Events replay | ✓ |  ✖ | [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/event-replay/) | This is an [Enterprise](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/)-only feature. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Events replay | ✓ |  ✖ | [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/user-guides/administrators-guide/event-replay/) | Only available with the [Enterprise](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/) plan. | 
```

Or if we keep the original, maybe add the link on 'Enterprise-only', the whole term.

> | Transformations |  ✓ |  ✖ | [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/transformations/) | Only applicable for [cloud mode](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode) destinations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Transformations |  ✓ |  ✖ | [Learn More](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/transformations/) | Only applicable for [cloud mode](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode) destinations. |
```

What are your thoughts on 'Learn more' instead of 'Documentation'?

| Live events |  ✓ | ✖ | [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/get-started/live-events/) | Only applicable for [cloud mode](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode) destinations. |

> | Data governance | ✓ |  ✖ | [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/data-governance/)| This is an [Enterprise](https://www.rudderstack.com/enterprise-quote/)-only feature. |

Reviewer: same as above

| Cloud Extract (ETL) | ✓ |  ✖ | [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/cloud-extract-sources/) | [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) users can set up only 1 Cloud Extract source.  | 

> | Reverse ETL | ✓ |  ✖ |  [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/) | [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) users can set up only 1 Warehouse Actions source.  | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Reverse ETL | ✓ |  ✖ |  [Documentation](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/) | [RudderStack Cloud Free](https://app.rudderstack.com/signup?type=freetrial) users can set up only 1 Reverse ETL source.  | 
```

Should it be a Reverse ETL source? not sure, you can clarify.
